Give Monthly Give InHonor Donate Stay Informed Please type the letters that you see in the box: Change image submitclose  x MENU Kidney Disease Causes and risk factors Types Symptoms Tests Prevention Free health screenings Kidney Action Day Treatments Complications Kidney failure Other kidney problems Kidney disease in children Kidney transplants Preparing for transplant Transplant waiting list Types of transplant Kidney transplant in children Life after transplant Donate a kidney Financial assistance Kidney patient financial assistance HelpLine Carolyn Wilson Scholarship Program Grants Managements System (GMS) Login Disaster preparedness for dialysis patients Disaster preparedness resources for renal professionals Education & Research Webinars Become a Kidney Health Coach Clinical Scientist in Nephrology program Online continuining education Clinical trials Research Kidney disease fact sheets Infographics Additional resources Advocacy Take action on current issues Advocate for kidney patients The real story (Charitable premium assistance) Public policy and kidney disease Get the latest news Get Involved Donate now Ways to give Fundraise for AKF Become a Circle of Champions Join Our email list Why to give Join us at an event Other ways to get involved Donate Now Stay Informed About Us Blog Newsroom Contact Us HelpLine En Español GMS Login Give Monthly Give InHonor Donate Kidney Disease Causes and risk factors Diabetes High blood pressure Family history Obesity Race/ethnicity Full list of causes and risk factors Types Chronic kidney disease Glomerulonephritis IgA nephropathy Lupus nephritis aHUS (atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome) Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) Rare diseases Full list of types Kidney disease in children Causes Stages Complications Symptoms Kidney pain Blood in urine Protein in urine Full list of symptoms Tests eGFR (blood test) Urine tests Prevention Living healthy Kidney-friendly diet Free kidney screenings Kidney Action Day Treatments Dialysis New to dialysis (FIRST30) Kidney transplants Medical management Clinical trials Full list of treatments Complications Gout Anemia Heart disease High phosphorus High potassium (hyperkalemia) Full list of complications Kidney failure Causes Symptoms Treatments Complications Other kidney problems Kidney stones Kidney infection Kidney cancer Acute kidney injury Nephrotic syndrome Hepatitis C Full list of kidney problems Kidney Transplants Preparing for transplant Benefits and risks of kidney transplant Evaluation for transplant Finding a match Transplant team Transplant surgery Transplant waiting list Getting listed for a kidney transplant Multiple listing Choosing a transplant center Waiting for a kidney transplant Types of transplant Living donor transplant Paired kidney exchange Deceased donor transplant Kidney transplant in children Preparing for transplant Transplant team Types of kidney transplants for children Transplant surgery for children Life after transplant Life after transplant Diet and exercise Immunosuppressant medicines Anxiety, depression and mental health Kidney rejection Lifestyle changes Donate a kidney Being a living kidney donor Benefits and risks of living kidney donation Living donor surgery Financial Assistance Kidney patient financial assistance Health Insurance Premium Program (HIPP) Safety net grants Prescription drug resources Disaster relief grants HelpLine Carolyn Wilson Scholarship Program Grants Management System (GMS) login Disaster preparedness for dialysis patients Disaster preparedness resources for renal professionals Education & Research Webinars Kidney Chat: Ask a Social Worker - Register today Food Safety and Kidney Disease - Register today Pain Management and Kidney Disease Clinical Trials and Kidney Disease Managing Side Effects of Late Stage Kidney Disease Sexual Health, Sexuality, and Kidney Disease Healthy weight pre and post-kidney transplant Gout and kidney disease Living Kidney Donation: Everything you Need to Know Become a Kidney Health Coach Clinical Scientist in Nephrology program Previous CSN award recipients Online continuing education Clinical trials Find a clinical trial Types of clinical trials Phases of a clinical trial Qualifying for a clinical trial Patient safety and concerns Important terms to understand Research Kidney disease fact sheets Infographics Additional resources Advocacy Take action on current issues Support living donors Urge Your Representatives to Support Funding for Kidney Research Tell Congress why they should care about kidney disease Let HHS know that third-party premium payments are important to patients Urge your representative to join the Congressional Kidney Caucus! Advocate for kidney patients Join our Advocacy Network Charitable premium assistance Oppose CA AB290 Take action on current issues Find your legislators Public policy and kidney disease Our policy priorities Legislation Resources and information Get the latest news Advocacy eNews Advocacy blog Advocacy spotlight Get Involved Donate now Fundraise for AKF Why to give Other ways to give Give monthly Memorials and tributes Donate a car Donate gently used items Stock donation Workplace giving Gift and estate planning Circle of Champions Corporate sponsorship Join us at an event The Hope Affair A Pairing for Prevention - Boston The New York Golf Classic Kidney Action Day Free health screenings Other ways to get involved Volunteer Calendar Kids Art Contest Shop the AKF store Donate Now Give Monthly Give In Honor Kidney failure/ESRD diet www.kidneyfund.org > Kidney Disease > Kidney Failure/ESRD > ESRD Diet See page en Español Kidney Chat: Ask a social worker Register and submit your questions about emotional and financial support when you have kidney disease. Register Today Dialysis helps to do some of the work that your kidneys did when they were healthy. But dialysis does not work as well as healthy kidneys, and it cannot do everything that healthy kidneys do. Some waste and fluid may still build up in your body, especially between dialysis treatments. Over time, the extra waste and fluid in your blood can cause heart, bone and other health problems. If you have kidney failure/ESRD, you must monitor the amounts of fluid and certain nutrients you take in each day. This can help keep waste and fluid from building up in your blood and causing problems. Exactly how strict your diet should be depends on your treatment plan and other health concerns. Most people on dialysis need to limit: Potassium Phosphorus Fluids Sodium Kidney Chat: Ask a social worker Register and submit your questions about emotional and financial support when you have kidney disease. Register Today Potassium Phosphorus Fluids Sodium Hemodialysis diet Peritoneal dialysis diet Special steps for people with diabetes Find kidney-friendly recipes on Kidney Kitchen Potassium Potassium is a mineral found in almost all foods. Your body needs some potassium to make your muscles work, but too much potassium can be dangerous. Having too much potassium in your blood is called hyperkalemia. When you are on dialysis, your potassium level may be too low or too high. Having too little or too much potassium can cause muscle cramps, weakness and irregular heartbeat. Having too much potassium can cause a heart attack. Ask your dietitian how much potassium you should have each day. Print and use this potassium log to keep track of how much potassium you take in! Return to top Phosphorus Phosphorus is a mineral found in many foods. It works with calcium and vitamin D to keep your bones healthy. Healthy kidneys help keep the right balance of phosphorus in your body. When you are on dialysis, phosphorus can build up in your blood. Having too much phosphorus is called hyperphosphatemia. This can lead to bone disease, which causes weak bones that break easily. Limiting the amount of phosphorus you take in can help prevent this problem. Talk to your dietitian about how much phosphorus you should have each day. Return to top Fluids When you are on dialysis, fluid (water) may build up in your body between treatments. Too much fluid in your body can cause high blood pressure, swelling, trouble breathing and heart failure. Having extra fluid in your blood can also make your dialysis treatments more difficult. If you need to limit fluids, you will need to cut back on how much you drink. You may also need to cut back on some foods that contain a lot of water. Soups and foods that melt, such as ice, ice cream and gelatin, have a lot of water in them. Many fruits and vegetables are also high in water content. Talk to your dietitian about how much fluid you should have each day. If you are limiting fluid and feel thirsty, try these tricks to quench your thirst: Chew gum. Rinse your mouth without swallowing. you can keep mouthwash in the refrigerator and use it as a cold rinse for your mouth. Suck on a piece of ice, mints or hard candy (remember to count the ice as fluid, and pick sugar-free candy if you have diabetes). Try sucking on a reusable ice cube. It feels cold, but doesn't add any fluid to your body. Return to top Sodium Everyone’s body needs some sodium to work correctly. Sodium helps you keep the right amount of fluid in your blood. Healthy kidneys help keep the right amount of sodium in your body. When your kidneys are not working, sodium can build up in your blood. When this happens, your body holds on to too much water. This can make your blood pressure too high and can cause problems during your dialysis treatments. Limiting how much sodium you take in each day can help keep your blood pressure under control and help prevent your body from holding on to too much fluid. Talk to your dietitian about how much sodium you should have each day, and use these tips to limit sodium in your diet: Do not add salt to your food when cooking or at the table. Try cooking with fresh herbs, lemon juice or salt-free spices. Choose fresh or frozen vegetables instead of canned vegetables. If you do use canned vegetables, rinse them to remove extra salt before cooking or eating them. Avoid processed meats, such as ham, bacon, sausage and lunch meats. Munch on fresh fruits and vegetables rather than crackers or other salty snacks. Avoid pickled foods, such as olives and pickles. Limit high-sodium condiments, such as soy sauce, BBQ sauce and ketchup. Return to top Hemodialysis diet If you are on hemodialysis and have treatments three times per week, you will likely need to strictly limit potassium, sodium, phosphorus and fluids. This is because when your blood is being cleaned only three times per week, there is more time between treatments for waste and fluid to build up in your blood. You may also need to limit how much protein you take in. If you do hemodialysis at home, and do your treatments every day, you may be able to be less strict with your diet. Talk to your dietitian about making a diet plan that is right for you. Return to top Peritoneal dialysis diet If you do peritoneal dialysis (PD), you may be able to take in slightly more phosphorus, potassium, sodium and fluid than if you did hemodialysis. You will also need to eat more protein. This is because PD works all day and night to take waste and fluid out of your blood. This keeps the waste and fluid from building up in your blood like it does between hemodialysis treatments. If you do PD, talk to your dietitian about making a diet plan that is right for you. Return to top Special steps for people with diabetes If you have diabetes, work with your dietitian to make a diet plan that allows you to avoid the nutrients you need to limit, while also controlling your blood sugar. If you do PD, keep in mind that PD solution has dextrose in it. Dextrose is a type of sugar. When you do PD, some of the dextrose is taken in by your body. If you have diabetes, it is very important to count the dextrose in your PD solution as extra sugar in your diet. Talk to your health care provider or dietitian if you have questions about managing your blood sugar if you do PD. Return to top Find kidney-friendly recipes on Kidney Kitchen In Kidney Kitchen, you can take a deep dive into what each nutrient means for people with kidney disease, and how much of these nutrients common foods contain. Learn what healthy eating means for people in every stage of kidney disease, including those on dialysis or living with a kidney transplant. Find recipes on Kidney Kitchen. Return to top Related Blog Your kidney disease diet: managing phosphorous Your Health Anemia and kidney failure Blog Infographic: Beat the heat! Stay hydrated without overdoing fluids Support AKF Give now Help AKF fight kidney disease. DONATE Join our email list. Please type the letters that you see in the box: Spam Control Text: Please leave this field empty Submit Change image Stay connected Kidney Disease Causes and risk factors Types Symptoms Tests Prevention Treatments Complications Kidney failure Other kidney problems Kidney Transplants Preparing for transplant Types of transplant Life after transplant Donate a kidney Financial Assistance Kidney patient assistance HelpLine Grants Management System (GMS) login Education & Research Patient Webinars Become a kidney health educator Clinical Scientist in Nephrology program Online continuing education Search clinical trials Advocacy Advocate for kidney patients Join our Advocacy Network Public policy and kidney disease Get the latest news Get Involved Donate now Fundraise for AKF Other ways to give Join us at an event Other ways to get involved Join our email list to stay informed Newsroom News releases AKF in the news Blog: Kidney Today About Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use OIG compliance policy Contact Us © American Kidney Fund, Inc. All rights reserved. The American Kidney Fund is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. EIN: 23-7124261.11921 Rockville Pike, Suite 300, Rockville, MD 20852 | 800-638-8299 Designed and Developed by Firefly Partners Back to top nonprofit software