Skip to Content Menu Search Cancer Helpline 800.227.2345 Live Chat Latest News English Español More Languages Donate Donate Cancer A-Z Stay Healthy Treatment & Support Our Research Get Involved Our Partners About Us News English Español More Languages Donate Live Chat Cancer Helpline 800.227.2345 Phone Search Search En Español CategoryTreatment & Support Treatments and Side Effects Complementary and Alternative Medicine The terms "complementary" and "alternative" are sometimes used to refer to non-traditional methods of diagnosing, preventing, or treating cancer or its symptoms. Here you'll find general information to help you better understand what these terms mean and how to decide if using them is right for you. You'll also find a wealth of information on specific complementary and alternative treatments, grouped into the five categories below. Complementary and Alternative Methods and Cancer You may hear  about alternative or complementary methods to prevent, diagnose, or treat cancer or its symptoms. Learn about what these terms mean and find information to help you think through the issues to make the most informed and safest decision possible. Dietary Supplements: What Is Safe? Dietary supplements include things like vitamins, minerals, herbs, or products made from plants, animal parts, algae, seafood, or yeasts. The information here can help you learn more about dietary supplements so you can make a more informed decision about using them safely. Evaluating New Cancer Treatments You may have just heard about a new or alternative form of cancer treatment. Before you put your time, your body, and your money on the line, learn more about what you are looking at so you can decide if it's worth it. Learning About New Cancer Prevention Methods In your quest to be healthy, you may hear about something that you are told can reduce your risk of cancer -- a new way you haven't heard about before. It sounds like a good idea, and you may want to try it. Before you put your body and money on the line, find out more about it. Marijuana and Cancer Marijuana has been used in herbal remedies for centuries. Scientists have identified many biologically active components in marijuana. These are called cannabinoids. Placebo Effect Even though placebos are not active medicines, they seem to help some patients. The effects of placebos may occur because the patient believes in the substance, the treatment, or the doctor. Even if a person feels better after taking a placebo, it doesn't mean the person's illness or symptoms were not real. More Information on Complementary and Alternative Medicine For reliable information on specific complementary and alternative methods, please see the following websites: Memorial Sloan-Kettering Integrative Medicine National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH) More In Treatment & Support Understanding Your Diagnosis Finding and Paying for Treatment Treatments and Side Effects Survivorship: During and After Treatment Caregivers and Family Children and Cancer End of Life Care Find Support Programs and Services in Your Area BackTo Top Imagine a world free from cancer. Help make it a reality. DONATE Cancer Information Cancer Prevention & Detection Cancer Basics Signs & Symptoms of Cancer Treatments & Side Effects Cancer Facts & Statistics News and Stories Glossary For Health Care Professionals Programs & Services Breast Cancer Support TLC Hair Loss & Mastectomy Products Hope Lodge® Lodging Rides To Treatment Online Support Communities ACS FUNDRAISERS Making Strides Against Breast Cancer Walks Relay For Life Events College Relay For Life Coaches vs. Cancer Galas, Balls & Parties Ways to Give Memorial Giving Planned Giving Leadership Giving Donate a Car About ACS Contact Us Local Offices Employment Information for Suppliers Report Fraud or Abuse Global Health ACS CAN Sign Up for Email Policies Our Volunteers More ACS Sites Bookstore Shop Cancer Atlas Press Room Cancer Statistics Center Volunteer Learning Center Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Cancer Information, Answers, and Hope. Available Every Minute of Every Day. 800.227.2345 Live Chat Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram help site map privacy policy - 2018 accessibility terms of use state fundraising notices Site Comments © 2019 American Cancer Society, Inc. All rights reserved. The American Cancer Society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. Cancer.org is provided courtesy of the Leo and Gloria Rosen family. Close * Close Image of Previous Next Close Close Select A Hope Lodge