success fail Jan FEB Mar 06 2011 2012 2013 23 captures 04 Nov 2011 - 18 Feb 2019 About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS Skip To Content Skip To Primary Navigation Skip To Secondary Features CHANNEL 4 FILM4 MORE4 E4 4MUSIC 4oD Food Hospital Using food as medicine Tuesdays at 8pm on Channel 4 Watch now Foods Conditions Surveys(Take Part!) Trials(Take Part!) Episodes The Truth About Search: Search Elemental Diet Health Facts A liquid-only diet. Ensures nutritional needs are met whilst resting the digestive system. May help people with Crohn’s disease. Overview An elemental diet is a liquid-only diet where nutritional intake is met through the consumption of specially prepared liquid meals. These contain special proteins, fats and carbohydrates that can be absorbed without digestion. Elemental diets are similar to polymeric diets apart from the fact that they provide nutrients in simple forms, containing individual amino acids and glucose polymers, as opposed to the intact proteins and more complex carbohydrates found in polymeric diets. Elemental diets ensure that the patient continues to receive all of the nutrients their body needs to function correctly whilst giving their digestive system time to rest and recuperate. However, you should only follow this diet on a short-to-medium term basis. This type of diet may be suitable for people experiencing particularly severe symptoms of Crohn’s disease or who are showing signs of malnutrition. It may also be recommended for patients preparing for surgery, radiology or colonoscopy. Featured Conditions Crohn's disease Case Files + View All Laura, 22 Conditions Conditions Select a condition to find out more about it and to learn which foods can affect it. View the Conditions Surveys Surveys Join in our weekly surveys, let us know how you feel about food & nutrition & contribute to important scientific research. Take the Survey The Truth About Quiz The Truth About Quiz Try our ‘Truth About…’ quiz to find out how much you really know about diet and nutrition. Do the Quiz Videos Videos Watch clips from the show and learn more about health and science with our online infographic videos. View the Videos The Truth About The Truth About Explore ‘The Truth About’ section to figure out the facts behind common food myths and nutrition assumptions. The Truth About Follow us on: Facebook Twitter Partners: Bazian Sense About Science The British Dietetic Association NHS Choices Wellcome Trust Glossary Terms and Definitions Presenters View our presenters Important Notice The information and advice provided on this website (including, without limitation, the advice of our online specialists) is for use as information or for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for professional medical care by a qualified doctor or other suitably qualified healthcare professional. We do not warrant that any information or advice included within this site will meet your health or medical requirements. This website does not provide any medical or diagnostic services so you should always check with a health professional if you have any concerns about your health. Food Hospital Terms & Conditions. CHANNEL4 FILM4 MORE4 E4 4MUSIC 4MUSIC C4 BLOGS Info Press Commissioning Corporate Corporate Responsiblity Freedom of Information Act Talent Jobs Sales Terms and Conditions Parental Control Privacy Policy Accessibility Diversity BLOGS Contact Us FAQs Channel 4 © 2011. Channel 4 is not responsible for the content of external websites.