Accessibility links Skip to article Skip to navigation Telegraph.co.uk Friday 18 October 2019 Home Video News World Sport Business Money Comment Culture Travel Life Women Fashion Luxury Tech Film Women Men GoodLife Wellbeing Interiors Gardening Food Pets Relationships Expat Puzzles Announcements Events Diet Fitness Mood and mind Sleep Health Advice Doctor's Diary Graham Norton Spa Spy Advertisement Home» Lifestyle» Wellbeing» Diet Diet another day: the Montignac Diet Inspired by French cuisine: Montignac food By Chloe Rhodes 11:52AM GMT 21 Nov 2005 How to drop a dress size days. This week: Chloe Rhodes looks at the Montignac Diet What is it? This is a low glycaemic-index (GI) diet for people who love their food, and is the latest offering from Michael Montignac - the founding father of GI dieting. It is based on two eating plans: one to lose weight, and the other to keep it off. The plans take inspiration from French cuisine, so the good news is that the foods that are blacklisted by calorie-counting diets - such as red wine, cheese and chocolate - are all allowed. The method, which excludes high GI carbohydrates and saturated fats, allowed Montignac to lose 35lb in just three months. Sample menu The menus give two main meal options: either protein and fat, or high-fibre carbohydrate. Lunch should be the main meal of the day. Breakfast: herbal or fruit tea; oatcakes topped with non-fat cheese; and sliced apples. Lunch: cherry tomato and basil soup; chef salad of cheese, ham, boiled egg, tomatoes and olive oil; and a few squares of dark chocolate. Optional snack: almonds and hazelnuts. Dinner: vegetable soup; wild mushroom ramekins with rocket salad; chopped apples with fromage frais. They say The diet's golden rule is to eat as low on the glycaemic index as possible, in order to trigger fat loss. Most overweight people release too much insulin when they eat carbohydrates, and the stored glucose is then converted into fat. Low GI foods stabilise the amount of insulin that is produced by the pancreas, which, in turn, improves the efficiency of your metabolism to allow you to maintain the weight loss. Montignac also believes the diet is successful because it allows you to eat the foods you love, so it is sustainable - even over Christmas. We say There is now a large body of scientific evidence to support the low GI method. Claire Williamson, nutrition scientist for the British Nutrition Foundation, says there are proven advantages to following the basic principles of this diet. "Studies have shown that eating foods with a low GI can have health benefits - particularly for diabetics or people with insulin-resistant syndromes," she says. "It can also reduce the risk of healthy people developing diabetes and other diseases. Though it's still unclear whether this is a direct result of the GI rating, or other factors like the high fibre content, or the fact that many of these foods are also low in calories."Many foods with a low GI are the ones we associate with a healthy diet for other reasons, such as vegetables and whole grains. "We would always recommend that people include good quantities of these foods in their diets."Williamson does warn that following a low GI diet can be quite difficult - because calculating the GI content of a meal is more complicated than it looks - but says that the long-term sustainability of the diet makes it a fairly sensible one. "I'm in favour of any diet that encourages healthily eating, but allows moderate enjoyment of the foods you like," she says. 'The Montignac Diet' is published by Dorling Kindersley on December 1 (www.dk.com) Diet Health » In Diet The healthy-food blogger Ella Woodward shares her Instagram gallery 10 Best: health-boosting food swaps Workout and diet secrets of top fitness coaches We’re eating our way to disaster Top news galleries Advertisement Advertisement Latest Video» Disabled great-grandfather denied stairlift and forced to crawl Elderly wombat rescued after being attacked Sponsored When media meets medicine More from the web Advertisement Advertisement More from the web More from the web Back to top HOME Motoring Motoring News Food and Drink Recipes Restaurants Women Women's Life Sex Family and Parenting Gardening Gardening Advice Gardening Pictures History Expat Car Warranty Crossword Dating Theatre Tickets Contact us Privacy and Cookies Advertising Fantasy Football Tickets Announcements Reader Prints Follow Us Apps Epaper Expat Promotions Subscriber Syndication © Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019 Terms and Conditions Today's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast