Actabit Weight Loss Feeling healthy and feeling good about yourself is not a luxury – it’s an absolute necessity. Toggle Navigation Submit Guest Post on Weight Loss, Health, Fitness, Yoga Contact Us Very Low Calorie Diet for Rapid Weight Loss PinTweet201 Shares The very low calorie diet is a doctor-supervised diet that allows 600-800 calories per day. Most very low calorie diets consist of high-protein shake containing vitamin and mineral supplements to meet recommended daily requirements. The diet is used for short-term weight loss (up to six months). The very low calorie diet is prescribed by a physician on a case to case basis to promote rapid weight loss in patients with Body Mass Index (BMI) of 30 or higher. It can be prescribes to patients with Body Mass Index between 27 and 30 if they have medical complications due to overweight. The very low calorie diet is a very effective treatment for rapid weight loss and allows patients to lose three to five pounds per week. It can be used to improve obesity-related medical conditions such as high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes. The minor side effects of the very low calorie diet include fatigue, nausea, constipation or diarrhea. The serious side effect of the very low calorie diet is gallstone formation caused by rapid weight loss. It can be prevented by some medicines. To ensure the patients are not experiencing any serious side effects, doctors must monitor patients regularly, about twice a week. Low calorie diets allowing 800-1000 calories a day have shown to be equally effective in helping patients lose weight. This is probable due to the fact that it is easier for patients to comply with less restrictive diets. The very low calorie diet can cause large amount of weight loss and improvement in health in obese patients. The very low calorie diet always requires medical supervision as it can be misused by the patient and lead to health risks. You must seek medical help before trying any very low calorie diet because dangerous side effects can occur if the diet is abused. PinTweet201 Shares Filed Under: Low Calorie Diet Tags: rapid weight loss, very low calorie diet Negative Calorie Diet 1200 Calorie Diet for Weight Loss Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Name* Email Address* Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Comment Categories Calorie Counter Apps Cellulite Treatment Coffee Diet Cycling Drinking water Fast Food Calories & Nutrititon Facts Fitness Tips Food Calorie Count Food Combining Diet Health Healthy Eating High Protein Diet How Many Calories Should I Eat? Increase Metabolism Liposuction Low Calorie Diet Low Carb Diet Low Fat Diet Mexican Food Nutrition Data Obesity Facts Pregnancy Diet Running Skin Health Sleep and Weight Loss Special Diets for Diseases Tea Health Benefits Vegetarian Diet Walking for Weight Loss Water Exercise Weight Gain Weight Loss Weight Loss Diet Weight Loss Exercise Weight Loss Motivation Weight Loss Programs Weight loss smoothies and shakes Weight Loss Supplements Weight Loss Surgery Weight Loss Tips Yoga